# 6: Oblivious two-party protocol

Note: All protocols discussed so far are not fair. One party learns the result
before the other. We'll not try to fix this for now.

3 protocols we'll discuss:
- Oblivious pseudo-random function (OPRF)
- Private set intersection (PSI)
- Oblivious transfer (OT)

## PRF

Recall PRF: `F : {0, 1}^lambda x {0, 1}^in -> {0, 1}^out`. `F(k, x)` should
'look random' to any party that does not know `k`.

Formally, indistinguishable from truly random distribution on `{0, 1}^out`.
Adversary `A` interacts with a stateful library:
```
L_(prf-rand)
  T := {}
  Lookup(x):
    if x not in T:
      T[x] <- {0, 1}^out
    return T[x]

L_(prf-real)
  k <- {0, 1}^lambda
  Lookup(x):
    return F(k, x)
```

Secure iff `A` can not distinguish the two libraries with more than negligible
advantage. (Non-polynomial in security parameter).

In practice we can implement a PRF by `F(k, x) = HMAC(k, x)`.

## OPRF

Goal: PRF which evaluates F between sender S knowing k, and receiver R knowing x.

`S(k), R(x)` as inputs, `R` learns `y = F(k, x)`

```
S(k)                                    R(x)
k ---------> (black box) <------------- x
                  |
                  --------------------> y = F(k, x)
```

### Completness

`R` learns `F(k, x)`.

### Security for S

Same as security of underlying PRF. When running OPRF protocol inside
`L_{prf-real}`, the `R` cannot distinguish the two libraries.

### Security for R

For any two `x, x'`, `S` cannot distinguish which of the two was used for the
execution.

## Construction of PRF F

Let `F: Z_q x {0, 1}^in -> {0, 1}^out` over some cyclic group `G = <g>` of
order `q`.

With two hash functions:
```
H: {0, 1}^in -> G
J: {0, 1}^* -> {0, 1}^out
```

We then define `F(k, x)` as:
```
F(k, x) = J(H(x)^k)
```

Note `k in Z_q`, `x in {0, 1}^in`. Ie k is a group member, not an arbitrary bit string.
Both `H` and `J` are modeled as a random oracle for formal proofs.

This is a PRF assuming hardness of CDH, in the ROM.

## Oblivious implementation of PRF

```
S(k)                    R(x)
                        r <- Z_q
        <--- v ---      v = H(x)^r
w = v^k ---- w --->     y = J(w^(1/r))
```

### Completness

```
y = J(w^(1/r)) = J((v^k)^(1/r))
= J((H(x)^r)^(k*1/r))
= J(h(x)^k)
```

### Security for S

Notice R sees, for `i = 1, ..., n` (individual calls of PRF)
1) `v_i = G` chosen by R
2) `w_i = v_i^k` from S

If R could find some `w, v` such that `w^k = v` for some `i`, then R could
effectively produce one more DH tuple and distinguish the two libraries.

### Security for R

Since `v = H(x)^r` and `r` uniformly random in `Z_q`, the sender S learns no
information about `x`. (By properties of the hash function alone I guess?)

So far we considered semi-honest security. What if S or R are malicious?

- Malicious R cannot gain any information as it only sends some `v in G`
- Malicious S could send a value `w' != v^k`, leading to `y' != y`
  This could be prevented with a ZKP, where R validates w (as `v^k`)

## Private set intersection

Two parties hold a private set each, and compute the intersection of their
sets. Sets are represented as bit strings.

```
A(X)                                            B(Y)
X subset of 2^{{0, 1}^*}                        Y subset of 2^{{0, 1}^*} // ie X, y are bit strings
// wlog: |X| = |Y| (not required for PSI though)

X -----------------> (PSI) <------------------- Y
                       |
                       -----------------------> Intersection of X and Y
```

Applications:
- Genome testing
- Searching for people in DB without revealing contents of DB
- Contact tracing
- Searching for mutual contacts in two address books

### Intuitive but insecure

- Compute hash of every element in set, send to other party
- Problem: If set of elements is small, brute force attack is possible.
  Formally elements of `X` and `Y` may have low entropy

NB easy fix of appending randomness r before hashing (ie salted hashing) is
still not secure as, for each element, security wouldn't be improved. Only
overall security would be.

### PSI using OPRF

- `A` picks an OPRF key `k`
- `A` and `B` transfer the PRF values `F(k, y)` for `y in Y`
- `A` sends PRF on `x in X`
- `B` computes intersection

```
A(X)                                B(Y)
k <- {0, 1}^lambda                  H_B = {}, J_B = {}

for i = 1 to n:                     for y in Y: // NB |Y| = n
  k --------------> (OPRF) <----------y
                      |
                      --------------> Z_y // = F(k, y)
                                      H_B << Z_y
                                      J_B << (y, Z_y)
H_A = {}
for x in X:
  H_A << F(k, x) ----- H_A -------->  I := H_A intersected with H_B
                                      Z := { y : (y, Z_y) in J_B AND Y_z in I }
                <----- Z -----------
```

NB: `H_A` must be sent either as random permutation or with canonical order,
such as not to leak information to `B` about `X`.

#### Completness

```
y in intersection of X and Y <=> (F(k, y) in I)
```

#### Security for A

- PRF allows B to guess anything about elements of X
- OPRF does not leach anything about key k to B

#### Security for B

OPRF does not give information about any `y in Y` to A

## Oblivious transfer

No implementation will be given, only specification.

Sender `S` holds a database `x_1, ..., x_n`. Receiver wants to receive `x_c`
for some `c`, such that:
- `S` does not learn `c`
- `R` does not learn anything on `x_i, i != c`


### Example

- Retrieve some paid information from server
- Accessing DB privately
- Building block for more complex two-party (or multi-party) secure protocols

### 2-1 oblivious transfer from S to R

`S` has `{x_0, x_1} in {0, 1}^l`
`R` has `c in {0, 1}`

```
S(x_0, x_1)                         R(c) 
----- x_0, x_1 ----> (OT) <-------- c
                      |
                      ------------> x_c
```

#### Completness

`R` obtains `x_c`

#### Security for `S`

`R` learns no useful information about `x_c'`

#### Security for `R`

`S` learns no useful information about `c`.


#### Information-theoretical vs computational

Remember: Only one can be information-theoretically secure, other one only
computational
