# 1. Introduction

- Computing with and on encrypted data
- Authentication without giving away data (application of zero-knowledge proofs)
- Cryptographic voting protocols
- Blockchains which respect privacy (keep secrets secret)
- Generate unbiased randomness
- Sealed-bid auction without a trusted auctioneer (none may see the bids)



## Example: Generating random bit

Two parties exchanging messages, with goal of deriving, after finitely many
steps, a random bit.
It can be proven that, without cryptographic tools, there is no solution for
two parties.

In offline (real-life) setting: Both choose one bit, open it at the same time,
then use output of addition mod 2 as random bit => Relies on envelope a)
keeping bit safe and b) preventing parties from changing their mind.

With cryptographic hash function H (collision-free and one-way, eg SHA2
family):
- Use hash function as commitment scheme
```
Alice:                                              Bob:
  a <- {0,1}                                          b <- {0,1}
  x <- {0,1}^k                                        y <- {0,1}^k
  c := H(a || x)                      -- c -->
                                     <-- d --         d := H(b || y)
                                     -- a,x -->       verify c = H(a || x)
  verify d = H(b || y)               <-- b, y --

=> output a XOR b
```

### Security:

- c reveals nothing about a, so Bob cannot pick b in a way to influence outcome (hiding property)
- c prevents Alice from lying about a (commitment property)
  She cannot find `(a,x) != (a', x')` such that `H(a||x) = H(a'||x') = c` due to collision resistance
- Vice versa for Alice/Bob
- If one of A, B is honest then a, b was chosen uniform randomly, so too is the output


## Example: Millionaire's problem

A, B want to find out who is richer, without leaking more about their wealth
than that.
Assumption: Both are honest when inputting their wealth into the protocol.

`A(x), B(y)`, some messages exchanged, then same result `x >?= y` for A and B.
Easy if trusted party T exists, A sends x, B sends y to T, which compares and
informs parties. In real life: Auctioneers, marketplaces, elections, people
matching (dating), ...

No easy solution here, will be covered later.

## Privacy of programs and data

Why do computers see the programs they execute, and data they execute on?
=> Assumption of trusted computing base.

Any layer of a computer has access to everything running above of it.

Mind: Data and program theoretically interchangeable. Interpreter can turn data
into program, specific program can be tailored to data. Showing for one
theoretically sufficient.

## Example: Computing with encrypted data

A(x) with data x. B(f) with function f. Goal: Compute f(x) without exposing x.

- Encryption scheme with pk, sk for Alice
- Alice computes cx = Enc(pk, x)
- Alice sends pk, cx to Bob
- Cloud computes cy = Eval(pk, f, cx), 'runs' f on encrypted data cx, sends cy to Alice
- Alice computes y = Dec(sk, cy), with y = f(x)

Application: Fully homomorphic encryption systems.
Discussed in course: Single homomorphic encryption systems


## Example: Secret vote among three parties

Parties `p1, p2, p3`. Each one with binary vote `vi`. Goal: Compute sum `s` of
`vi` privately. (Mind: If sum = 3 then clearly everyone voted yes. Hence
'privately' = expose no more information about vi than what follows from `s`
directly.)

### Protocol

- Primitive: `split(b) -> (x1, x2, x3)` such that `b = x1+x2+x3`. Special case
  of secret sharing, splitting bit `b` between 3 parties
- Use prime `p`
```
split(b):
  x1 <- Z_p
  x2 <- Z_p
  x3 <- Z_p such that x1 + x2 + x3 \equiv b mod p
  return (x1, x2, x3)
```
- Parties assumed to be connected by secure channels (confidential & authenticated)
- Protocol for `p_i(v_i)`
```
(x_{i1}, x_{i2}, x_{i3}) = split(v_i)
*send* x_{ij} to p_j
*receive* x_{ji} from p_j
y_i := x_{1i} + x_{2i} + x_{3i} mod p
*send* y_i to p_j
*receive* y_j from p_j
output y_1 + y_2 + y_3 mod p
```

#### Completness:

Every party outputs :
```
s \equiv Sum over j (y_j) 
\equiv Sum over j (Sum over k (x_{kj}))
\equiv Sum over k (Sum over j (x_{kj}))
\equiv Sum over k (x_{k1} + x_{k2} + x_{k3})
\equiv Sum over k (v_k)
```

#### Security

- `split(v)` ensures that you only can recontstruct `v` if you have acess to
  `v_1`, `v_2`, `v_3`, any two values provide no information still.
- Informally only: Given `s`, and the `x_ji` a party sees, it has no more
  information about `v_j`, `j != i`, than what follows from `s`.

NB: This protocol requires correct majority -> Details later.


## Secure computation

### Goals

- Privacy: No party learns more information than output implies
  => Party knows only its own input, the output, and the protocol messages
  As if computation happened by a trusted party.
- Correctness: Every party receives the correct output. If input of a faulty
  party is not clear (changing), the protocol computes on the basis of *a*
  consistent value, producing a consistent output for all parties.
- Input independence: Inputs of faulty parties may not depend on inputs of
  correct parties, eg not being able to overbid someone by 1 (without knowing
  their amount)
- Fairness: Faulty parties receive output if and only if the correct parties
  receive an output. (Requires >2 parties, otherwise issue with (not) sending
  last message to other party)

Mind: Modern e-commerce does not have fairness property. Ordering does not
guarantee receiving, nor payment. Worked around by eg credit card companies
accepting risk, and insuring both parties receive only if both do.

Now: Blockchain-based currencies can ensure fairness.

### Types of faults

- All faulty parties controlled by an adversary A

Then:
- Semi-honest behaviour: Faulty parties execute protocol correctly, but leak
  all internal values to adversary ('read-only' attack, 'passive corruption')
- Malicious behaviour: Faulty parties behave arbitrarily, act against correct
  parties, coordinated by A

### Types of computations

- Anything which can be done in polynomial time
- Usually without interaction with users, only initial inputs -> 'secure
  function evaluation'
- Usually with one common output for all parties, but individual outputs can be
  added easily 


# Overview:

1. Introduction (this)
2. Techniques, circuits, PK crypto
3. Blind digital signatures
4. Homomorphic PK cryptosystems (2-party)
5. Commitment & zero-knowledge proofs (2-party)
6. Oblivious transfer primitive (2-party)
7. Secure two-party computation: Yao's garbled-circuit protocol (2-party)
8. Distributed cryptography (threshold cryptosystems) (n parties)
9. Secure multi-party computation (n parties)
