# Distributed cryptosystems

- Participants (or nodes, needn't be human) collaborating on cryptographical
  task, resistant to malicious participants
- Eg blockchains


## Secret sharing

Recall:
- Share secret s in GF(q)
- Any f+1 shares able to reconstruct the secret, any f have no information
- Hence tolerate f corrupted nodes

Naive idea: Secret key shared via secret sharing. But then: If malicious party
is part of f+1 quorum (with 1 to f honest participants), it is able to recover
the key.

Instead threshold cryptography.

## Threshold ElGamal

`G = <g>`, `|G| = q`.

Public key: `y = g^x`
Secret key: `x = Share(x_1, ..., x_n)` using f+1-of-on secret sharing
- Assume trusted party to distribute shares. Alternatively DKSP

Hashed ElGamal:
```
Enc(y, m):
  r <- Z_q
  R := g^r
  C := H(y^r) XOR m

  return (R, C)
```

Decryption protocol
- Client sends `(R, C)` to all parties
- `P_i`, upon receiving `(R, C)`, computes decryption share `d_i := R^{x_i} mod q` in `Z_q` (ElGamal)
- Sends `d_i` to client
- Client, upon having received `f+1` shares, computes 
  `z := Product d_i^{lambda_{0, i}^S}` in G (secret sharing)
  `m := H(z) XOR C`

### Completness

Recall: `x = Sum [ lambda_{0, i}^S * x_i]`

Hence:
```
z = Prod [ d_i^{lambda_{0, i}^S} ] 
  = Prod [ (R^{x_i})^lambda_i ] // Notational abbreviation: lambda_i for lambda_{0, i}^S
  = R^{Sum[ x_i lambda_i] }
  = R^x
  = g^{xr}
```

Hence:

```
H(z) = H(g^{xr}) = H(y^r)

=> H(z) XOR C = m XOR H(y^r) XOR H(z) = m
```

### Security

Based on security of underlying encryption scheme, here ElGamal. Every
participant releases only `d_i = R^x_i`, which is equivalent to releasing
public key `y = g^x`.

### Robustness

None at all. A single dishonest participant, sending a wrong `d_i`, disrupts
the protocol.

For small groups: Do decryption for all possible subgroups of `f+1`
participants. Those containing only honest participants are guaranteed to
produce the same result.

For big groups: Dealer generates and publishes `y = g^x` and `y_i = g^{x_i}`.
We then know that `log_G(y_i) = log_G(d_i) = x_i`, which can be proven with an
EQ proof.

Still vulnerable to corrupted dealer. Can be solved by eg verifiable secret
sharing protocol.

### Dual-threshold systems

Idea: Different thresholds for reassembly and safety. Eg: `n = 3f+1`, with `f`
malicious nodes, and `2f+1` required for reconstruction

## RSA threshold signatures

Recall `pk = (N, e)`, `sk = d`, such that:
```
N = p*q, p, q primes
d = e^{-1} mod phi(N)
```

So we cannot use group homomorphism, because `phi(N)` must not be public.

### n-out-of-n secret sharing

Not realistic as cooperation of all participants required, but instructive,
example. There also exist schemes for f+1-of-n RSA secret sharing schemes.

Recall:
```
Sign(d, m) = H(m)^d mod N
Verify(N, e, m, sigma): H(m) ?= sigma^e mod N
```

Where `H` is a hash function in `Z_N`.

Goal: 'Secret-sharing' over the integers, using n-of-n structure.

To share `d`, choose random `d_i in [-2^lambda * N, 2^lambda * N]` such that:
```
Sum [ d_i ] = d
```

'Scaling' factor of `2^lambda` 'hides' actual value, else any `k` participants
would learn that `N` is larger than the sum of their shares, which would be a
'small' space.

Generally just pick `d_i` from a much larger space than is required.

To sign:
- Each participant generates signature share `sigma_i = H(m)^{d_i} mod N`
- Sends to client
- Upon receiving all shares, compute `sigma := prod [ sigma_i ]`

#### Completness

```
sigma = prod [ sigma_i ] mod N
      = prod [ H(m)^{d_i} ] mod N
      = H(m)^{sum [ d_i ]} mod N
      = H(m)^d mod N
```

## Threshold PRF

See handout. Provides:
`F_k(x) = H'(H(x)^k)`

With distributed key `k`

## Proactive security

Problem: Over time, shares are expected to leak due to compromised parties.
Even if parties recover, this will - over a long time - cause the secret o
leak.

One way to handle it: Rotate keys, effectively 'starting from scratch'.
Alternatively: Rotate long-term (eg once a year), but proactively change
individual shares short-term (eg weekly).

Idea: Once every epoch, produce a fresh sharing of the same private key between
the parties. Assume all participants honest-but-curious (semi-honest).

Each `P_i` acts as a dealer in secret sharing, and it shares `0`.
This gives `b_i(X)` for each participant, such that `b_i(0) = 0`.

`a'(X)` is a sharing of the same secret as before, ie `a'(0) = a(0)`.

We want: `a'(X) = sum [ b_i(X) ]`
We get this when each participant computes `x'_i = sum for j=1 to n [ b_j(i) ] + x_i`

This gives a share `x'_i` on `a'(X)` for each participant, `x'_i = a'(i)`

Periodic refresh such that one can tolerate up to `f` corrupted parties per
epoch.
