# 9 Secure multiparty computation

So far boolean circuits: Bits, AND, OR, NOT, XOR.
Now arithmetic circuits.

Assume secure channels between all pairs of parties.
Assume n > 2f.

## Arithmetic circuit

- Over a finite field GF(q)
- With + and * operations of field, from additive and multiplicative subgroups

### Theorem

For every function `f : {0, 1}* -> {0, 1}` which is computed by a boolean
circuit `C_B`, there exists an arithmetic circuit `C_A` which computes `f`.
with its size (number of gates) directly proportional (multiplication with a
constant) to the size of `C_B`.

Proof: Exercise.

## 9.1 BGW protocol

Multi-party-computation with unconditional security. (Information-theoretically
secure), discovered by Ben-Or, Goldwasser, Wigderson, STOC'88.

- Recall GMW protocol for 2-PC with unconditional security based on OTs.
- Every wire is represented by a shared value (secret-sharing)

### Overview

1) Use (f+1)-of-n sharing for all wires, `w <-> (w_1, ..., w_n) = [w]` //
   shorthand notation
2) Implement each gate of circuit
3) To provide inputs, `P_i` shares its input `x_i <-> [x_i,1 ... x_i,n]` in
   (f+1)-of-n scheme
4) Every party releases (broadcasts) its shares, allowing every other party to
   obtain the output of the wire

### Protocol

- `P_i` has input `x_i` in GF(q)
- Compute `y = f(x_1, ... ,x_n)` using arithmetic circuit C
- Of `P_1, ..., P_n` , `f` are semi-honest, `n-f` are honest

#### 1) Share input values

- `P_i` shares `x_i = [x_i]` and distributes shares
- For each input wire `x_i = w_i`, parties hold `[w_i]`

#### 2) Evaluate all gates in order


##### Addition gate in GF(q)

```
t : j + k

[w_j] = sharing of j
[w_k] = sharing of k
```

Recall Shamir sharing: `w_{ji} = a_j(i)`, `w_{ki} = a_k(i)`
Hence:

```
[w_j] + [w_k] = (a_j(1) + a_k(1), ..., a_j(n) + a_k(n))
= (w_{j,1} + w_{k, 1}, ..., w_{j, n} + w_{k, n})
= [w_j + w_k]
```

Uses only local computation, then reconstruction of shared value.

##### Multiplication gate in GF(q)

Naive approach simply chains addition gates. More efficient approaches:


1) Multiplication by constant `gamma`:
```
t = gamma * j

gamma * [w_j] = (gamma * w_{j,1} ... gamma * w_{j, n})
= [gamma * w_j]
```


2) Multiplication of two shared values `[w_j], [w_k]`:
Mind: Product of two polynomials of degree `f` will lead to a polynomial of
degree up to `2f`.


a) `P_i` locally computes `h_{t, i} = w_{j, i} * w_{k, i}`
```
[h_t] = [w_j] * [w_k]
```

`h_{t, 1} ... h_{t, n}` defines a polynomial `b_t(x)` of degree up to `2f`,
such that :
```
b_t(i) = h_{t, i} = w_{j, i} * w_{k, i}
       = a_j(i) * a_k(i)
```

Ie the product of the two polynomials of the sharings of the factors.

Observe now that `b_t(0) = a_j(0) * a_k(0) = j * k`
Result is correct, but cannot continue like this forever as degree of
polynomials would double every multiplication gate.

b) Degree reduction

As `N > 2F` we can reconstruct this polynomial, allowing us to reduce it to a
polynomial of degree `f` again.

There exist coefficients (Lagrange) such that:
```
w_t = b_t(0) = Sum for i = 1 to 2f+1 [ lambda_i * b_t(i) ]
= Sum for i =1 to 2f+1 [ lambda_i w_{j, i} * w_{k, i} ]
```

This expression is evaluated using another 'shared' computation protocol.
Notice all operations are linear.

- `P_i` shares `h_{t, i} <-> (h_{t, i, 1} ... h_{t, i, n})`
- Parties now hold `[h_{t, 1}], ... [h_{t, n}]`
- Parties locally compute 
```
[w_t] = Sum for i = 1 to 2f+1 [ lambda_i * [h_{t, i}] ]
= [ Sum for i = 1 to 2f+1 [ lambda_i * h_{t, i} ] ] // This is an f+1 sharing because of having been produced as such.
```

c) After degree reduction, `[w_t]` is again f+1-of-n sharing, `a_t()` has
degree f, and `a_t(0) = w_t`

3) Reconstruct output wires

For each output wire o, parties hold `[w_o]`.
`P_i` sends `w_{o, i}` to all parties using broadcast.
`P_i` receives enough shares of `w_o` and reconstruct it.


### Cost

- Public-key operations: O (unconditional)
- Communication bits `O(|C| * n^2)`
- Communication rounds: `O(depth(C))`

### Analysis (informal)

Completness kind of follows from description above.

Security: Local computation leaks nothing. Anything else based on (f+1)-of-n
secret sharing, so f corrupted parties learn nothing of the inputs. (Excluding
what the output of the function tells of the inputs)

## Commercial applications

- Unbound security: Instead of centralized key storage in eg HSMs, store keys
  as shared secrets over all nodes
- Sharemind: Distributed storage of data, and (simple) queries and computations
  on this data
